CAMEO CODE DETAILS 

  01 -> MAKE PUBLIC STATEMENT 
  
          [ It is just a simple root event name ]
  010 ->
          [ Make statement, not specificed below ] 
		  
				All public statements expressed verbally or in action not otherwise specified.
				
				This residual category is not coded except when distinctions among 011
				to 017 cannot be made. Note that statements are typically subordinate
				events; events such as comments are coded as mere statements only when
				they do not further imply appeals, agreements, support, apologies, demands,
				disapprovals, rejections, threats, etc
   
   011 --> 
   
          [ Decline comment ]
		  
		         Explicitly decline or refuse to comment on a situation
				 
				This event form is a verbal act. The target could be who the source actor
				declines to make a comment to or about.
	
	012 -->
	
	      [ Make pessimistic comment ]
		  
		         Express pessimism, negative outlook.
				 
				This event form is a verbal act. Only statements with explicit pessimistic
				components should be coded as 012; otherwise, default to 010.
				
	013 -->
	
	      [ Make optimistic comment ]
		  
		         Express optimism, assurance, confidence
				 
				This event form is a verbal act. Only statements with explicit optimistic
				components should be coded as 013; otherwise, default to 010.
				
    014 -->
	
	      [ Consider policy option ]
		  
		        Review, reflect upon, or study policy option.
		  
				This event form is typically, although not exclusively, a verbal act. There is
				no limitation on types of policies that could be under consideration
		
     015 --> 
	 
	      [  Acknowledge or claim responsibility ]
	 
				Non-apologetically claim responsibility, admit an error or wrongdoing, or
				retract a statement without expression of remorse. 
				
				This event form is a verbal act. Remorseful acknowledgements should be
				coded as ‘Apologize’ (055) instead
				
	  016 -->
	  
	       [ Reject accusation, deny responsibility ]
		   
		        Discard or deny accusations or charges.

				This event form is a verbal act. The target for this event type is the party
				that introduces some accusation or charge against the source actor who
				denies responsibility
	  
	  017  -->
	  
	        [ Engage in symbolic act ]
			
				Engage in symbolic activities such as holding vigils, attending funerals, and
				laying wreath
				
				Use this event form for all symbolic acts, including those that imply empathy.
				Use 018 to code only empathetic comments (i.e. not actions).

	   018 -->
	   
	        [ Make empathetic comment ]
			
			    Express empathy, condolences, sympathy, understanding.
				
				This event form refers exclusively to verbal acts or comments. Empathetic
				and other symbolic actions should be coded as 017 instead.
				
	    019 --> 
		
		    [  Express accord ]
			
			     Express common understanding, agreement, or accord.
				 
				This event form refers exclusively to verbal acts or comments. Use this code
				when actors indicate that they simply agree or concur on an issue but do not
				imply commitment or intent to cooperate on that issue. These are typically
				reciprocal events (see example below) and require coding of more than one
				019 event with actors reversed.
				
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

              02 -->  APPEAL
				
				
		02 --> The main root event code is 02 which means all the subevent which belongs to 02 that event is related to APPEAL
		
		   -----
		   
		020 --> Make an appeal or request, not specified below
		
		        [ All requests, proposals, suggestions and appeals not otherwise specified ]
				
				This residual category is not coded except when distinctions among 021
				through 028 cannot be made. Events coded under this category refer to
				pleas made either on the source actor’s own behalf or on behalf of another
				party (i.e. the source asks that the target does something either for self or
				for a third party). Note that this and all the subcategories are distinct from
				demands, which are more forceful, and from pledges, which imply commitments,
				agreements, or promises on the part of the source actor.
		

        021 --> Appeal for material cooperation
		
		        [ Make an appeal for, request, or suggest material cooperation ]
				
				This event form is typically, though not exclusively, a verbal act. It refers
				to appeals for material cooperation specifically; appeals for diplomatic cooperation,
				such as for the provision of support on a particular policy, are
				coded as 022 instead. (Note that the actual events of material cooperation
				are coded under category 06.)
				
       --------------------------------------------- SUB EVENTS FOR 021 ---------------------------------------------------------------------

									0211 --> Appeal for economic cooperation
									
											 [ Appeal for economic cooperation ]
											 
											Make an appeal for, request, or suggest initiating or expanding economic
											ties
											
											Use this code for requests to develop or expand trade and other forms of economic
											exchange. Appeals for provision of economic aid-not mutual exchangeare
											code
											
									0212 -->  Appeal for military cooperation
									
											 [ Make an appeal for, request, or suggest initiating or expanding military ties. ]
											 
											Use this code for requests to develop or expand military relations by engaging
											in acts such as joint military maneuvers or exercises. Appeals for provision of
											military aid-not mutual exchange-are coded as 0232 instead. Actual events
											of military cooperation are coded as 062

									
									0213 -->  Appeal for judicial cooperation
									
											[ Make an appeal for, request, or suggest initiating or expanding cooperation
											in judicial matters. ]
											
											Use this code for requests to develop or expand cooperation in such matters
											as extraditions. Appeals for information or other investigative tools, even if
											to be used in courts of law, are coded as 0214 instead. Note that in case of
											extraditions, the target for this event type is not the subject but the country
											he would be extradited to. Actual events of judicial cooperation are coded
											as 063.
											
									0214 -->  Appeal for intelligence cooperation

									
											[ Make an appeal for, request, or suggest sharing of intelligence. ]
											
											Use this code for requests to develop or expand intelligence and information
											sharing. Actual events of intelligence cooperation are coded as 064
											
									
		----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


        022 --> Appeal for diplomatic cooperation (such as policy support)

		        [ Make an appeal for, request, or suggest expansion of diplomatic ties or cooperation ]
				
				This event form is typically, although not exclusively, a verbal act. It refers to
				appeals for expanded diplomatic ties and non-tangible support on particular
				policies. Appeals for more specific forms of diplomacy, such as mediation
				and negotiation, are coded elsewhere within category 02
	     
		023 --> Appeal for material aid, not specified below
		
				[ Make an appeal for, request, or suggest provision of material assistance not
				otherwise specified. ]

				This category contains sub-forms for more detailed coding whenever possible.
				The source could be requesting aid for itself or on behalf of a third party;
				in either case, the actor whom the request is directed to should be coded
				as the target. Note that only requests for or suggestions of material aid are
				coded under this category; events coded under 023 imply neither the receipt
				or delivery of material aid nor a commitment on the part of the source actor
				to provide such aid. For the latter two cases, refer instead to categories 07
				and 033, respectively
				
							----------------------------------------------------- SUB EVENTS OF 023 ----------------------------------------------------------------
							
							0231 --> Appeal for economic aid
							
									 [ Make an appeal for, request, or suggest economic assistance. ]
									 
									This event form is typically, although not exclusively, a verbal act. Requests
									or suggestions for loans or debt relief are also coded here. Appeals for reciprocal
									economic exchange, such as trade, should be coded as 0212 instead.
									The source could be requesting support for itself or on behalf of another
									party.
							
							0232 --> Appeal for military aid.

									 [ Make an appeal for, request, or suggest military assistance. ]
									 
									This event form is typically, although not exclusively, a verbal act. Requests
									for or suggestions of joint military actions, rather than unilateral military
									aid, should be coded as 0212 instead.
							
							0233 --> Appeal for humanitarian aid 
							
									 [ Make an appeal for, request, or suggest humanitarian assistance. ]
									 
									Requests for or suggestions of food, medicine, and related personnel, as well
									as shelter and protection, are all coded as 0233. Calls by refugees to be let
									into the territories of other countries (which should be coded as targets) and
									asylum requests all fit here.
									
							0234 --> Appeal for military protection or peacekeeping
							
									[ Make an appeal for, request, or suggest deployment of peacekeepers or other
									military forces to preserve peace, enforce ceasefires, or protect civilians. ]
									
									
									This event form is typically, although not exclusively, a verbal act. The
									source actor could be making the appeal for itself or on behalf of another
									party; the target should represent the actor who is expected to provide the
									forces.
									
							------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
							
		 
		 024 --> Appeal for political reform, not specified below
		 
		         [ Make an appeal for, request, or suggest political change not otherwise specified ]
				 
				 This event form refers to verbal and non-threatening appeals. More forceful
			“demands” for political change are coded under 104; expressions that
			take the form of demonstrations, protests, etc. are coded under category 14.
			Source actors can be local citizens as well as international actors; they could
			be making the appeal on their own behalf or on behalf of others. Note that
			when the requested reform clearly constitutes some form of concession or
			yielding by the target such as the easing of administrative sanctions, a more
			appropriate ‘Appeal’ code might be found under 025.
		
								-------------------------------------------------------- SUB EVENTS FOR 024 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------		
									 0241 -->   Appeal for leadership change
									 
												[ Make an appeal for, request, or suggest change in leadership or power. ]
												
												This event form refers to verbal and non-threatening appeals. More forceful
												“demands” for leadership change are coded as 1041; demonstrations,
												protests, etc. demanding change in leadership/power are coded under category
												14. Note that even though calls for the target to resign or relinquish
												power are forms of yielding, they are still coded here. Also code appeals for
												elections here.					
									 
									 0242 -->   Appeal for policy change
									 
												[ Make an appeal for, request, or suggest change in any particular policy. ]
												
												This event form refers to verbal and non-threatening appeals. More forceful
												“demands” for policy change are coded as 1042; demonstrations, protests,
												etc. demanding change in leadership/power are coded under category 14.
												Just like the source actor, the policy in question can also be domestic or
												international in nature. If it is clear from the lead that by requesting certain
												policy changes the source is in fact appealing to the target to yield or concede,
												the event might be better coded under 035.
												
									  0243 -->  Appeal for rights 
									  
												[ Make an appeal for, request, or suggest provision or expansion of social,
												political, or other rights. ]
												
												This event form refers to verbal and non-threatening appeals. More forceful
												“demands” for rights are coded as 1043; demonstrations, protests, etc.
												demanding certain rights are coded under category 14. If it is clear from
												the lead that by requesting certain rights the source is in fact appealing
												to the target to yield or concede, the event might be better coded under
												025. Appeals for provision of compensation for previously violated rights,
												for instance, are coded as 025.
									   
									   0244 --> Appeal for change in institutions, regime
									   
												[ Make an appeal for, request, or suggest major institutional, constitutional,
												or regime change. ]
												
												This event form refers to verbal and non-threatening appeals. More forceful
												“demands” for institutional change are coded as 1044; demonstrations,
												protests, etc. demanding such change are coded under category 14. Institutional
												change is different from policy change in that the former directly
												alters the rules of the game. Requests for fundamental changes in the political
												system (e.g. democratization) as well as for more limited institutional
												changes (e.g. changing electoral law) are coded here
												
								  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    025 -->  Appeal to yield, not specified below
	
			[ Make an appeal for, request, or suggest that target yields or concedes; not
			otherwise specified. ]
			
			This event form is typically, although not exclusively, a verbal act. The
			source for this event type may or may not be one of the adversaries; a third
			party could also be appealing to one or more of the parties in conflict (who
			are coded as targets) to yield. When the source itself expresses its intent
			to yield—rather than requesting it from another party—the event should
			be coded under 035 instead. When yielding actually takes place, use the
			appropriate code under category 08
		
								   ----------------------------------------------------------------- SUB EVENT OF 025 ------------------------------------------------------------------------		

  								   0251 --> Appeal for easing of administrative sanction
									
											[ Make an appeal for, request, or suggest that target relaxes administrative
											restrictions. ]
											
											Use this code when a government is requested to undertake some political
											changes that clearly constitute some form of concession or yielding, such as
											relaxing or removing bans or other restrictions that are already in place
									
									0252 --> Appeal for easing of political dissent
									
											[ Make an appeal for, request, or suggest that target stops political protest
											activities. ]
											
											Use this code for requests for the target to stop engaging in protests, demonstrations,
											strikes, etc.
											
									0253 -->  Appeal for release of persons or property
									
											[ Make an appeal for, request, or suggest that target releases persons or property ]

											Use this code for requests for the target to release prisoners, hostages, and
											any confiscated property.
									
									0254 -->  Appeal for easing of economic sanctions, boycott, or embargo
									
											[ Make an appeal for, request, or suggest that target stops or eases economic
											sanctions, boycott, or embargo ]
											
											Use this code only for economic sanctions, boycotts, or embargoes.
											
									0255 -->  Appeal to allow international involvement (non-mediation)

											[ Make an appeal for, request, or suggest that target allows the entry of international
											actors, such as observers, humanitarian agencies, and peacekeeping
											forces. ]
											
											Requests for adversaries to allow mediation are coded as 028 instead
											
									0256 --> Appeal for target to de-escalation of military engagement

											[ Make an appeal for, request, or suggest that target stops fighting or takes
											measures to ease military conflict or tension. ]
											
											Use this code for appeals for ceasefires, military withdrawals, and demobilization.
								   ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

      026 --> Appeal to others to meet or negotiate
	  
	          [ Propose or suggest meeting, negotiation, or discussion among other parties. ]
			  
				This event form is typically, although not exclusively, a verbal act. The
				source for this event cannot be the actors whose meeting or negotiation is
				called for ; it has to be third parties who appeal to one or more actors—
				target actors—to meet and/or negotiate. When parties themselves express
				their intent to meet and/or negotiate, use 036 instead. When meetings or
				negotiations do take place, use the appropriate code under category 04
					
	  027 --> Appeal to others to settle dispute
	  
			[ Propose or suggest that others reach a settlement, agreement, or resolution
			of conflict. ]
			
			This event form is typically, although not exclusively, a verbal act. Note that
			the source for this event cannot be the adversaries themselves. When one or
			more parties to a conflict call for ending the conflict, that is taken to be an
			expression of intent on the part of that source actor to reach a settlement
			and is thus coded as 037 instead.
	  
	  028 --> Appeal to others to engage in or accept mediation
	  
	        [ Propose or suggest that target mediates or accepts the mediation of others. ]
			
			This event form is typically, although not exclusively, a verbal act. Note that
			the source for this event cannot be the potential mediator or parties to the
			conflict. When an actor proposes to play the role of mediator himself, this is
			assumed to be a commitment on his part and is coded as 039 instead. When
			one or more of the adversaries request that another party plays the role of
			a mediator, this is understood to be a commitment on their part to accept
			mediation and is thus coded as 038. The target can either be a potential
			mediator (whose mediation is being requested) or one of the adversaries (who
			is requested to allow involvement of mediators).
			
	   
	   03 -->  EXPRESS INTENT 
	   
	        030 -->  Express intent to cooperate, not specified below
			 
					[ Offer, promise, agree to, or otherwise indicate willingness or commitment to
					cooperate not otherwise specified] 
					
					This residual category is not coded except when distinctions among codes
					031 through 039 cannot be made. All cooperative actions reported in future
					tense are also taken to imply intentions, if not promises or commitments,
					to cooperate and are hence coded under this category. These events can be
					reciprocal or unilateral.
					
			 031 --> Express intent to engage in material cooperation, not specified
                     below
					 
					[ Offer, promise, agree to, or otherwise indicate willingness or commitment to
					engage in or expand material cooperative exchange not otherwise specified. ]
					
					This category contains sub-forms for more detailed coding whenever possible.
					This event form refers to commitments or indications of intent by
					parties to boost their material exchange; they could be reciprocal or unilateral
					agreements, promises, commitments, or other indications of intent to
					cooperate. Pledges to provide unilateral material aid, however, are coded
					under category 033. Expressions of intent to engage in or further diplomatic
					cooperation, such as negotiations, settling disputes, or provision of policy
					support are coded elsewhere under category 03. Note that events coded
					here are intents and commitments, and not actual events of cooperation,
					which should be coded under 06
			
			               0311 --> Express intent to cooperate economically
						   
									[ Offer, promise, agree to, or otherwise indicate willingness or commitment to
									engage in or expand economic ties. ]
									
									This event form refers to agreements, promises, commitments, or other indications
									of intent to develop or expand trade and other forms of economic
									exchange. Offers, promises, or commitments by one actor to provide economic
									aid to another should be coded as 0331 instead.
									
						   0312 --> Express intent to cooperate militarily
						            
									[ Offer, promise, agree to, or otherwise indicate willingness or commitment to
									engage in or expand military ties. ]
									
									This event form refers to agreements, promises, commitments, or other indications
									of intent to develop or expand military relations by engaging in such
									acts as joint military maneuvers or exercises. Offers, promises, or commitments
									by one actor to provide military aid to another should be coded as
									0332 instead
						    
							0313 --> Express intent to cooperate on judicial matters
							 
									[ Offer, promise, agree to, or otherwise indicate willingness or commitment to
									engage in or expand judicial cooperation. ]
									
									This event form refers to agreements, promises, commitments, or other indications
									of intent to develop or expand judicial cooperation by engaging in
									such acts as extraditions.
									
							0314 --> Express intent to cooperate on intelligence
							
									[ Offer, promise, agree to, or otherwise indicate willingness or commitment to
									engage in or expand intelligence sharing ]
									
									This event form refers to agreements, promises, commitments, or other indications
									of intent to develop or expand intelligence cooperation by providing
									or exchanging intelligence or information.
							
			032 --> Express intent to engage in diplomatic cooperation (such as policy
					support)
					
					[ Offer, promise, agree to, or otherwise indicate willingness or commitment to
					expand diplomatic ties or cooperation ]
							
					This event form is typically, although not exclusively, a verbal act. The
					offered or promised support should be non-material, such as supporting or
					backing particular policies and/or goals. Note that agreements or promises
					to engage in more specific forms of diplomatic cooperation, such as negotiations
					and mediation, are coded elsewhere under category 03. The target
					should be the recipient of the potential support.
					
			033 -->  Express intent to provide material aid, not specified below
			
					[ Offer, promise, agree to, or otherwise indicate willingness or commitment to
					provide some form of material support not otherwise specified.]
					
					This event category contains sub-forms for more detailed coding whenever
					possible. Note that more general commitments to broaden material exchange
					or cooperation are coded under 031 instead. Reported deliveries of material
					support are coded under category 07. The target should be the prospective
					recipient of aid.
					
					 0331 --> Express intent to provide economic aid

							[ Offer, promise, agree to, or otherwise indicate willingness or commitment to
							provide economic support. ]
							
							Code commitments to provide financial support, in form of grants, loans, or
							debt relief under this event code. Trade commitments should be coded as
							0311 instead.
							
					 0332 --> Express intent to provide military aid
					 
							[ Offer, promise, agree to, or otherwise indicate willingness or commitment to
							provide military support. ]
							
							Use this event form to code commitments to provide all forms of military aid.
							Promises to engage in bilateral or multilateral military cooperation should
							be coded as 0312 instead.
						
					  0333 -->  Express intent to provide humanitarian aid
					  
							[ Offer, promise, agree to, or otherwise indicate willingness or commitment to
							provide humanitarian support. ]
							
							Use this code for commitments to provide all forms of humanitarian aid, including
							evacuations from dangerous zones and shelter for refugees. However,
							note that expressions of intent to provide military security or peacekeeping
							forces are coded as 0334 instead. Actual provisions of humanitarian aid are
							coded as 073.
							
					  0334 -->  Express intent to provide military protection or peacekeeping
					  
							[ Offer, promise, agree to, or otherwise indicate willingness or commitment to
							deploy peacekeeping or other military forces for security. ]
							
							Source actor for this event is the party making the commitment to provide
							forces, while the target represents the prospective location of deployment.
							Actual deployments should be coded as linked events ‘Provide military protection
							or peacekeeping’ (074) and ‘Receive deployment of peacekeepers’
							(0861) with actors reversed. Commitments by adversaries to accept peacekeepers
							should be coded as 0355.
							
		  
		   034 --> Express intent to institute political reform, not specified below
		   
					[ Offer, promise, agree to, or otherwise indicate willingness or commitment to
					institute political change not otherwise specified. ]
					
					If the promised reforms clearly constitutes some form of concession or yielding
					by the source, such as the easing of existing administrative sanctions, a
					more appropriate code might be found under 035. If there are specific groups
					or individuals asking for that change and that information is codeable given
					the structure of the lead, those actors should be coded as targets; otherwise,
					the country in general or actors to be affected by the change should be coded
					as the target.
					
					0341 --> Express intent to change leadership 
					
							[ Offer, promise, agree to, or otherwise indicate willingness or commitment to
							change leadership or relinquish power. ]
							
							Commitments to resign or hand over power, as well to hold elections that
							might open the way for change in leadership, are coded here. Note that while
							commitments for other forms of yielding are coded under 035, commitments
							to give up power are coded here.
					
					0342 --> Express intent to change policy 
					
							[ Offer, promise, agree to, or otherwise indicate willingness or commitment
							for policy change. ]
							
							Use this code for commitments to bring policy change—political, economic,
							military, social, or otherwise. If the policy change in question clearly represents
							a form of yielding, the appropriate code under 035 should be used
							instead.
							
				    0343 --> Express intent to provide rights 
					
							[ Offer, promise, agree to, or otherwise indicate willingness or commitment to
							provide social, political, economic, or other rights and freedoms. ]

				    0344 --> Express intent to change institutions, regime

							[ Offer, promise, agree to, or otherwise indicate willingness or commitment
							to make fundamental political changes, such as moving from one type of
							political system to another and reforming political institutions or key laws. ]
							
		035 --> Express intent to yield, not specified below

				[ Offer, promise, agree to, or otherwise indicate willingness or commitment to
				yield not otherwise specified ]
				
				This event form refers to general expressions of willingness or commitment to
				concede; use the subcategories for more detailed coding. The actual events
				of yielding are coded under category 08.
				
				0351 -->  Express intent to ease administrative sanctions
 
						[ Offer, promise, agree to, or otherwise indicate willingness or commitment to
						ease administrative sanctions, such as censorship, curfew, state of emergency,
						and martial law. ]
						
				0352 -->  Express intent to ease popular dissent
				
						[ Offer, promise, agree to, or otherwise indicate willingness or commitment to
						reduce or stop political protest activities, such as demonstrations and rallies. ]
				
				0353 -->  Express intent to release persons or property
				
						[ Offer, promise, agree to, or otherwise indicate willingness or commitment to
						release or return persons or property. ]
						
						Commitments to release or exchange prisoners and hostages, as well as commitments
						to return previously confiscated properties, are coded here.
						
				0354 -->   Express intent to ease economic sanctions, boycott, or embargo
				
						[ Offer, promise, agree to, or otherwise indicate willingness or commitment to
						reduce or eliminate economic sanctions, boycotts, or embargoes ]
						
						Use this code only for economic sanctions, boycotts, or embargoes.
						
				0355 -->   Express intent to allow international involvement (non-mediation)

						[ Offer, promise, agree to, or otherwise indicate willingness or commitment to
						allow access to international actors, such as observers, humanitarian agencies,
						and peacekeeping forces ]
						
						Prospective peacekeepers, observers, etc. are coded as targets. Commitments
						to accept mediation by third parties are coded as 038 instead
					
				0356 -->   Express intent to de-escalate military engagement
				
						[ Offer, promise, agree to, or otherwise indicate willingness or commitment to
						stop fighting or take measures to ease military conflict or tension. ]
						
						Use this code for appeals for ceasefires, military withdrawals, and demobilization
						
		
		036 --> Express intent to meet or negotiate
		
				[ Offer, promise, agree to, or otherwise indicate willingness or commitment to
				meet, visit, or engage in talks or negotiations. ]
				
				This event code refers to future commitments to meet and/or negotiate;
				when meetings, negotiations, or other talks do take place, those are coded
				under category 04 instead. When mediation is mentioned specifically, appropriate
				mediation-related codes take precedence over meetings or negotiations
				
	    037 --> Express intent to settle dispute

				[ Offer, promise, agree to, or otherwise indicate willingness or commitment to
				reach a comprehensive settlement, agreement, or resolution to conflict. ]
				
				Note that specific commitments to yield, which might be present steps to
				settling disputes, are coded elsewhere under category 03. Both the source
				and the target for this event type should be adversaries themselves. When
				other parties make appeals to end disputes in which they are not directly
				involved, use ‘Appeal to others to settle dispute’ (027) instead.
				
	    038 -->  Express intent to accept mediation
		
				[ Offer, promise, agree to, or otherwise indicate willingness or commitment to
				accept mediation ] 
				
				This code represents adversaries’ commitments to receive mediation by third
				parties. The latter should be coded as targets, while the source has to be
				one or more of the parties in conflict for this event. Note that when reports
				involve references to mediation specifically, mediation-related codes such as
				this take precedence over others, such as ‘Agree to meet or negotiate,’ ‘Make
				a visit,’ ‘Host a visit,’ and ‘Meet at a third location.’ For commitments by
				third parties to mediate refer to code 039 instead. For simple suggestions by
				actors other than adversaries and potential mediators that mediation occurs,
				use ‘Appeal to others to engage in or accept mediation’ (028).
				
		039 -->  Express intent to mediate
		
				[ Offer, promise, agree to, or otherwise indicate willingness or commitment to
				play the role of a mediator. ]
				
				This code represents a commitment by third parties to mediate between parties
				in conflict. The former should be coded as source and the later as targets
				for this event. Note that when reports involve references to mediation specifically,
				mediation-related codes such as this take precedence over others, such
				as ‘Agree to meet or negotiate,’ ‘Make a visit,’ ‘Host a visit,’ and ‘Meet at
				a third location.’ For commitments of adversaries to accept mediation by
				actors other than the adversaries and potential mediators that mediation
				occurs, refer to ‘Appeal to others to engage in or accept mediation’ (028).
				
		
		
		
		--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
		
		040  -->   Consult, not specified below
		
		           [ All consultations and meetings not otherwise specified ]
				   
					This residual category is not coded except when distinctions among 041
					through 046 cannot be made. Note that events coded under 04 are typically,
					although not always, reciprocal events.
				   
	    050 -->    Engage in diplomatic cooperation, not specified below
		
					[  Initiate, resume, improve, or expand diplomatic, non-material cooperation
					or exchange not otherwise specified. ]
					
					This residual category is not coded except when the support in question
					cannot be further specified and codes 051-057 cannot be used.
					
		060 -->   Engage in material cooperation, not specified below

					[ Initiate, resume, improve, or expand material cooperation or exchange, not
					otherwise specified. ]
					
					This residual category is not coded except when distinctions among codes
					061-064 cannot be made.
		
		070 -->   Provide aid, not specified below
		
		            [ All provisions, extension of material aid, not otherwise specified. ]
					
					This residual category is not coded except when distinctions among codes
					071-075 cannot be made. In order to be coded under this category, the leads
					must report the delivery of aids; promises to provide aid should be coded
					under category 033 instead.
		
		080 -->   Yield, not specified below
		
		           [ All yieldings, concessions not otherwise specified. ]
				   
					This residual category is not coded except when distinctions among codes
					081-087 cannot be made. Not that all of the event forms under this category
					refer to reported yieldings and tot to future commitments, agreements, or
					promises.
	     
		090 -->    Investigate, not specified below
		
		           [ All non-covert investigations not otherwise specified. ]
				   
					This residual category is not coded except when distinctions among codes
					091-094 cannot be made. Also note that category 09 should be used only
					when investigations are being or have been carried out. Investigation of
					historical cases should also be coded here.
	    
		 100 -->   Demand, not specified below
		 
		          [ All demands and orders not otherwise specified. ]
				   
					This residual category is not coded except when distinctions among codes
					101-108 cannot be made. Note that demands are stronger or more forceful
					and potentially carry more serious repercussions—although not as much as
					threats—than simple appeals. We rely primarily on the language used by
					reporters to make this distinction. All demands are verbal acts.
					
		110 -->   Disapprove, not specified below
		
		         [ Express disapprovals, objections, and complaints not otherwise specified. ]
				 
					This residual category is not coded except when distinctions among codes
					111-116 cannot be made. Disapprovals are typically verbal events
					
		120 -->    Reject, not specified below 
		
		         [ All rejections and refusals not otherwise specified. ]
				 
					This residual category is not coded except when distinctions among codes
					121-129 cannot be made. All rejections coded under this category should
					imply refusals to cooperate or yield in some way.
		
		130 -->    Threaten, not specified below 
		
				[ All threats, coercive or forceful warnings with serious potential repercussions,
				not otherwise specified. ]
				
				Threats are typically verbal acts. This residual category is not coded except
				when distinctions among codes 131-139 cannot be made. When any conflictual
				behavior is forecasted using future tense, it is treated as a “threat” (e.g.
				’will attack’ is coded as ’Threaten to attack’).
				
		140 -->   Engage in political dissent, not specified below.
 
				[ All civilian demonstrations and other collective actions carried out as
				protests against the target actor not otherwise specified. ]
 
        
		150 -->  Exhibit military or police power, not specified below
 
				[ All military or police moves that fall short of the actual use of force, not
				otherwise specified. ]

				This category is different from cue categories 18, 19, and 20, as they refer to
				uses of force, while military posturing falls short of actual use of force and is
				typically a demonstration of military capabilities and readiness. Category 15
				is also distinct from category 13 in that the latter refers merely to threats,
				is typically verbal, and does not involve any activity that is undertaken
				to demonstrate military power. Note that source actors for codes 150-153
				are not necessarily militaries affiliated with states but any organized armed
				groups. Targets are actors against whom the source mobilizes its military
				capabilities in a threatening manner.


        160  --> Reduce relations, not specified below 
		
				[ All reductions in normal, routine, or cooperative relations not otherwise
				specified ]
				
				This residual category is not coded except when distinctions among codes
				161-166 cannot be made				

	    170 -->  Coerce, not specified below
		
				[ Repression, violence against civilians, or their rights or properties not otherwise
				specified. ]
				
		180 --> Use unconventional violence, not specified below
		 
				[ Use of unconventional forms of violence which do not require high levels of
				organization or conventional weaponry, not otherwise specified ] 
				
				Use this event form to code use of forms of force and violence that do not require
				high levels of organization typical of state-military establishments. Terrorist
				attacks, if not further specified, should be coded here. Use this default
				code also for use of knives, rocks and other such unsophisticated weapons.
				This residual category is not coded except when distinctions among codes
				181-186 cannot be made.
				
		190 --> Use conventional military force, not specified below
		
				[ All uses of conventional force and acts of war typically by organized armed
				groups not otherwise specified. ]

				This residual category is not coded except when distinctions among codes
				191-196 cannot be made. In addition to unspecified acts of fighting,
				“killings” of any kind when the weapons used are not specified should also be
				coded here. When news leads refer to acts of killing that take place during
				an attack or some form of military engagement as “murders”, those should
				still be coded here. However, murders in general—as criminal acts with no
				political connotations—are not coded under the CAMEO framework. The
				first example below illustrates how one can differentiate between these two
				different uses of the verb “murder”.
				
		200 --> Use massive unconventional force, not specified below
		
				[ All uses of unconventional force that are meant to cause mass destruction,
				casualties, and suffering not otherwise specified. ]
				
				This residual category is not coded except when distinctions among codes
				201-204 cannot be made
				
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------






						            

					